OOP Questions Homework

1. Give three different examples of inheritance.
Write these class definitions and their inheritance relationships out in Ruby.

class Grandfather
	def initialize(name:, age:)
		@name = name
		@age = age
	end
end

class Mother < Grandfather
	def say_hello
		puts "Hello"
	end
end

class Son < Mother
	def say_goodbye
		puts "Goodbye"
	end
end

josh = Son.new(name: "Josh", age: 34)

puts josh.say_goodbye


2. What is the difference (in your own words) between a local variable,
an instance variable, and class variable.

 - Local Variable
A local variable is stored inside of a class or a function for which that
encapsulats it and it cannont be referenced outside of its enclosure.

- Instance Variable
An instance variable is a variable that can be accessed inside of an enclosure
through the use of the @ symbol e.g. @name, @shopping_list.
The instance variable belongs to an instance of class which
is also called an object.

- Class Variable
A class variable is variable available across different objects, sometimes through inheritance.
When different classes share class variables with the sames name, the child class
value can override the that class of its parent through inheritance.
e.g.
@@say_name

3. What is encapsulation?
Encapuslation is basically a wrapper around a function, object, or
variable or mix.

4. What is a private method?
A private method is a function for which no one, or maybe certain devs,
have privilege to access. No one can access or alter the contents of the
function and it has a private flag usually somewhere above the function
to deny this access.

5. What is the difference between a class and an object?
What is the difference between a class and an instance?

The difference between a class and an object is that a class
encapsulate something while an object holds data and methods/functions.

The difference between a class and an instance is that, the class can hold
the instance vairable as well as generate new instance variables and objects
through the class body initializaiton method with the parameters given.

The instance of a class is what is generated by the class object parameters.
To make a new instance of an object...
e.g.

Class -

class Pet
	def initialize(name, type)
		@name = name
		@type = type
	end
end

Instance -

mike = Pet.new("Mike", "cat")

Mike is an instance based off, or of, the Pet class object constructor.

6. What is "duck typing" in Ruby?
"If an object walks like a duck and talks like a duck, then the Ruby interpreter is
happy to treat it as if it were a duck."

Bascially, treating objects according to their methods they define rather than
the name of the classes from which they inherit or modules they include.

class Duck
	def quack
		'Quack'
	end
end

def make_quack(duck)
	duck.quack
end

puts make_quack(Duck.new)

ref. http://rubylearning.com/satishtalim/duck_typing.html

7. Describe "Polymorphism"
Polymorphism is the ability to use the same interface for different data types.
Building a class that is responsible for the code and data, you can manipulate
different types of data with the same functions within the class.

ref. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1031273/what-is-polymorphism-what-is-it-for-and-how-is-it-used

8. What is a "base class", "sub-class", and "super class"?
Basically, new objects can take/use the properties of an existing object through inheritance.

A base class or superclass, is the base class for which other objects are derivied from and
a subclass is the class that is derivied from the base class or superclass if you will. This
could also be said to be a parent class => child class => grandchild class. These child classes
will inherit properties and methods from the parent class but can also have their own properties
and methods.

ref. http://www.adobe.com/devnet/actionscript/learning/oop-concepts/inheritance.html
